Hello! This is the 17th issue of the Weekly Review
(Opening theme)
Hey my friends, this review is not going to be like the other ones. There is something here that really disgusted me deeply,
and I think that thousands of you feel like me: it's about what happened to Theo in Aulnay-sous-Bois, France (we only give the first name).
Actually, it's heart-sickening to learn how he was treated. The worst part is that he was just passing by,
he had nothing to do with the issues that justified the presence of the police there at that time. He was treated in an ignominious way.
But guess who treated him so ignominously ?
The policemen who proceeded with an "ID check"!
Clearly, what was done was an act of torture.
It's a crime.
It's a rape but in the very essence of rape, that is an act of torture. There's nothing about sex here. Rape is an act of torture.
There's nothing about sex here. And it's absolutely infamous. There is something more that shocks me: there is the grief of what happened to that man,
and the compassion we have for him, and the solidarity we must show to his family but on top of that,  there is the indignation that we feel,
because it's not the idea we have of the police. We must expel the torturers from the police, those who did that.
It's not enough to say "let's wait and see".
No ! They must be banned, they don't have their place here. The republican police cannot tolerate such actions.
It cannot be called a slipup. No, I can't believe it. By the way, I find that this kind of "incident" is getting a bit repetitive.
I wonder whether there are not people who have other motivations than maintaining law and order,
or who have a very unwholesome understanding of the policeman's role, and if they do not act like that out of ideology,
because we're really beginning to have it up to here, big time!
So I ask the government to expel these people from the police. And I ask policemen...
—maybe you'll think I'm naive but I don't think I am— the French police has very deeply rooted republican foundations.
So my message to policemen is that they must speak, because I'm very shocked to see that when such things occur,
all we see is people who immediately step up to say: "No no no, wait, it's unfair to blame policemen."
So, no ! It's insufferable and intolerable ! And I can see that there is a provocative aspect to this, I wasn't born yesterday !
I can see the provocative aspect of this type of behavior, that aims at sparking off riots. But we want justice.
We want those who committed such acts of violence to be punished.
But in addition to that, they must be expelled from the police! The national police, the republican police has nothing to do with this kind of individuals.
Of course, I want to convey my sympathy to Theo and his family. As to all of you, give what's going on a thought!
Try to dismount the mechanics that operate.
Really, it really smells fishy.
OK. My second topic—if one gets to contain the anger that builds up inside, when one begins to address such a topic as the Theo case—
it's another reason not to be happy and it's about the situation in Mayotte. You probably don't know but Mayotte is a French department
in the Indian ocean. Mahorans are facing a terrible water crisis. There's no more water !
There are locations where there is no drinkable water available for many days per week. Of course, this is linked to climate conditions, see?
Thus it's one of the effects of the climate change for this island. So you can see
that we are beginning to enter a succession of events that relate to climate change. But it's also linked to something else:
it's the management, by a private company, of the water and that... you see, it's the second time I see that. For when I flew to Guadeloupe,
there was the exact same crisis situation with water and people were appalled. Of course, they don't speak too much about it for they would be embarrassed to say
"I don't have running water at home". But in Guadeloupe too there is an issue that is linked to bad management or, more precisely,
by a greedy management of water by a private company. In these conditions, the company let all the plumbing go rotten,
it's in a purely disastrous state: half of the water that circulates within is lost. Do you realize? Well, and in some cases, it's up to 70%!
So once again, it poses the question of who is allowed to run and "produce", so to say, for water has to be "produced",
it has to be extracted from where it is to make it available to people, so that is called production.
So who is allowed to do this water production? This is a question that I want to address in the presidential campaign.
I am in favor of the public property for water. Water is a common property, so it cannot be privatized,
and it should not be allowed to make margin, to make profit on water production. What is allowed is to incorporate in the water price
what is needed to rebuild some reserve and sustain investment. Full stop. There is absolutely no reason for a company
—and further more in a monopoly situation, see? you don't have a choice!— not to maintain the network in a correct state,
they are supposed to and they don't. So I deem that we need to take measures such as nationalising this company,
because when we're in such extreme situations like that, each time, one goes to fetch for local communities and they're brought to, at the last moment,
a rotten network, and it's up to people to put the money in to make it work again. So I deem that the nation must show solidarity
with all its members, all its citizens, and thus we cannot say "Oh, well, it's Mayotte there, it's far away, they'll manage on their own"
No, we are all concerned by what happens in Mayotte and our compatriots have the same right to water as we have in mainland France.
This is a situation that we cannot accept. So I make an appointment with you for very soon because I'll address that in a meeting.
Maybe it will be the one in Strasbourg on next 15th. On Feb. 15, I plan a meeting in Strasbourg and maybe I'll talk about water
there 'cause I find the examples are more and more numerous. So until then I have some time to furbish my arguments
for there is a very nice booklet that was designed by... under the direction of someone, around me, who plays a central role on this question of water,
he is Gabriel Amard, who already wrote several books on that topic and he is the leader of a team who wrote that booklet on water.
You'll discover that in this field like in every others, my team is very skilled, see? We are ready tomorrow, if we are elected,
we are ready to set the new system in place, no question there.
One thing I cannot drop aside is about what we are trying to do all together, you, who decided to subscribe
and follow my weekly reviews, and I obviously, who is producing them. We said from the start that we didn't only intend
to have a good time together but that we were trying to build a channel of information diffusion and political expression,
beside the "official" circuit —i.e. all that is official in the media— because, well, we're not satisfied
and we want to keep this ability to speak directly. That's what I offered first and that is what you liked
and why you decided to help me with thumbs up—and you keep on doing it—
to raise my video in the rankings,
and massive subscriptions. By the way,  we just passed the 200,000 milestone, you know? That milestone of 200,000 subscribers is very important
because it puts us, it gets us closer and closer to the standard level of a 24 hours news channel, and when we peak,
obviously, we get passed that level, the threshold of the 24 hours news channels. And now, this weekend, it was very interesting,
because at the same time of the Lyon meeting—you know, there was a meeting in Lyon and my hologram was in Paris—
So, where am I? (video)
(Crowd cheering)
- In Lyon? (video)
- YES (shouts)
- And now, I'm in Paris (gesture)
-  (ovation)
So don't tell me you don't know, for Brazilians know it, Italians know it, Chinese know it, English know it,
North-Americans too, seeing that their press related it and now there is a gesture that has a total swag and that is that one (snapping fingers), see?
that appeared in the mediasphere. So I have friends who— they really have a funny mind-set—each time they arrive somewhere, they go "it's me!" (snapping fingers)
So, it's a blink to this idea of apparition. And when they go, they do (snap) saying "Off I go". So it is. And thus,  I was in the meeting in Lyon
and in the beginning a series of 24 hours news channels were there "Hey, we are broadcasting Mr. Mélenchon". And we were very happy.
But when the meeting of Mrs. Le Pen began, about half-an-hour after mine, stop, they cut all over mine, see?
Thus, some took over the broadcast
end to end and I want to thank them, others, well, they did as they wanted.
It's not my business. I didn't ask for anything. But if they cut off, then... a lot of people around me were raging, saying
"Well it proves that..., it shows that..." Ok, obviously, it proves and it shows, hey, naive! But I was thinking:
"don't take people for fools". You really think that those who can see that don't understand what it it all means?
You believe they cannot see that they stopped broadcasting Mélenchon to provide viewers with a Le Pen fix?
Of course, people realized and what's interesting is that when people realized, I think of at least one channel,
because it was told by Anoine Léaument, on his video that you may look at, he said that on BFM radio itself (hats off, guy, hey),
he told them, he said "so when you cut us off, what did it give? 15,000 people went to see our YouTube channel."
So, this is interesting , first because one can still laugh, hey, you know, they are acting as a kind of recruitment officers.
That's my bet, see? Each time people are treated roughly, each time they get treated like idiots, each time a piece of information is distorted,
you have people—poor them—they believe what they're told, hey. But there are other people who get radical. They begin to say "Oh no, I can't stand this,
this time they went too far!" So either they come to support my candidature, or they give me the blue thumb up, or they subscribe, anyway,
they act and show that they're not cattle, y'know, that they have brains, that they realize how they are treated.
And there, we become an alternative to "officiality", got it? It means: you are looking at an official channel
and all at once, that is not what pleases you any more then woosh, you get back the program on my YouTube channel.
That, I find, is an interesting phenomenon. Well, I'm not saying it's tremendous, see? That's not my point.
But it means that they get new habits and we begin to enter an area where we are competing with the "official" channels
and that is in my opinion an interesting phenomenon in the media.
Now I'll tell you about an issue that was not addressed much, it's about the mass demonstrations going on right now in Romania
against the corruption and the newly-elected government. That's a social-democrat government from the Socialist International
that just took office and replaced a right-wing team that was really disapproved by the people.
And now, the just installed Romanian social democrat government wrote a decree in which it lightens—if I may say so—it loosens
the pressure against corruption and facilitates impunity regarding corruption. So the people got crazy, y'know. Betrayed that way, in less than a month,
that didn't please them at all. And they took to the streets, more and more until, to finish with,
after the government threatened to put them under repression—you could guess what, considering the rather violent methods used in Paris during the fight against the El-Khomri labor law—
they're the same there, you see, and the government, said "Ok, we're backing off". So they changed the decree...
They said they're gonna change it, sorry, they indeed took it off, they will change it. And they say "Ok, but now, you must stop demonstrating
because if you ever continue, it will prove it's a frame-up, i.e. they consider this affair is against themselves. They didn't understand:
people are demonstrating against corruption and if the government protects corruption, then the people demonstrate against them!
It's not that hard to understand! But this is exactly what I say in so many other domains!
This type of government is taking as a political plot what is indeed, for sure, finishing by aiming at them but that in the beginning is a protest against something else.
Let's take a local example: people did demonstrate against the El-Khomri act, they were protesting against that project, its content,
the betraying that it represented for all the people who trusted this PS government. Then since the PS government
responded by clubbing at everyone, of course, it became an absolutely fundamental opposition to that government.
Here we have the same scheme. But I'm a bit anxious though, because there is another feature to that movement,
and I ask you to think about it; it's the fact that the people are starting, they demonstrate against corruption, they get recovered in the way,
since no one is there to express their anger in a positive way. I meant that the only opposition party there is, well, bad luck?,
it's in power and it's the PS. Yet, it's the one that maneuvered so to help with corruption. Thus, what do the people who are here do?
Well, more or less politically, they don't have choice, they get recovered, politically recovered, but in the most simple meaning of the word,
i.e. those standing upfront and saying "oh yes, it's unacceptable, it's yucky" and so on, who are they?
Of course, they're precisely the right-wing party that was thrown over some time before. And obviously, as long as a right-wing party sets itself up to march,
all its good friends are around. Thus you have the state department of USA that is closely interested in the corruption in Romania,
-guess, hey- who expressed its worry, well, its concern regarding corruption, 'cause of course there's none in the USA,
thus it gives them the right to have an opinion about what's happening in Romania... And still more suspicious, the EU of course
went discoursing. Imagine! The European Union, lead by M. Juncker(!), has an opinion on the way to correctly manage the corruption cases in Romania!
That's enormous, this story, but most of all, it's as usual: that is the right-wing demonstrators, they come to the demonstration,
not with the right-wing flag, but with an EU flag, thus "no evil seen, no evil done", hey? and that is very european-looking
and it justifies that one lets believe that Europe is much concerned by the corruption topics, whereas it doesn't do a lot, let's say
because, if it were determined against corruption, it would begin with outing the army of lobbyists who are there permanently
and in a very official manner all around the EU Commission members or MEPs. It looks like there are 9 lobbyists, can you hear?
-a lobbyist is someone who is trying to influence, as the saying goes, MEPs- there are 9 of them for *each* MEP!
Personnally, I didn't see any, thus there must be some who have a lot more for them since there are people like me, for which people
like lobbyists, it just doesn't get into their mind to try to influence. Well, they're doing well since they would be received rather roughly, hmm...
Well, so look around, people, all that is going on like that, right now, in and around Europe.
You can see there are many many many popular movements, many anti-corruption gatherings, many anti-oligarchy movements.
For it's what they say, people in Romania, they are against oligarchy, the class, you know,
that tiny microcosm of only a few that holds everything  and manipulates medias, political people like puppets, they're so gross we can see the strings!
Well! Look after all that 'cause personally, I'm concerned, not because the people get moving against corruption, this is very good,
but because I find that the whole continent there is boiling up, country after country, one after the other, here it's about that topic and there it's about another. Well
this boiling, it can still go on the right side, but it needs to have the possibility to express itself. As for us, in France
of course, you can see that all the mud around Fillon feeds, well, rather Mrs Le Pen, hey, today,
but in the same time there is an alternative that exists, that my candidature represents. Thus if you are not in agreement with all that stuff,
you have a way to say it in a civilized way, not a barbarian one, not a wild one, not an obscurantist one, and to team up with us, the Rebellious ones.
There are so many countries where it doesn't exist, where there's nothing at all. It goes like "you choose between the same and the alike", right-wing corrupted people and the corrupted ones supposedly
"social-democrat", that's all.
Well, end of chapter. You must have wondered about that thing sitting by me on the table. It's a unique piece, one made of glass.
It was crafted by Eddie Legus, who was awarded "best workman of France" honor and who gave it over to me when I went in Champagney (France).
So, Champagney, it's in Haute-Saône (french district). There's a short movie relating my stay there
and the speech I pronounced because it was on the day I wanted to celebrate the abolition of slavery, 'cause this abolition of slavery, the first one,
occurred on Feb. 4, 1794 and I had prepared a speech to celebrate that moment. Nobody else than me, afaik, did anything on that topic that day.
The official abolition day is on May 10 and generally this event is celebrated in the "garden of Luxembourg" in Paris where there is a statute.
On that topic, the inauguration to which I then participated was a unusual event, since it was the time when
M. Sarkozy was just elected president and M. Chirac was still in office (as president). We had thus two presidents then and I found it quite a strong thing
And thus here I went to speak and Eddie came and offered that, it's his gift as best workman of France,
and in the same time, he planned to create a series of "phi"s of the same kind, in glass, that one can have on a chain around the neck and we'll soon be selling it on the website JLM2017.
That's because, as you know, "phi" is the logo that we intend to make live, to make popular as much as we can
and that would help me a lot if you could help to do that. Maybe you watched the movie on my meeting in Lyon, where there were huge "phi"s over the walls,
all over, well I believe this "phi" belongs to us. I'm saying "belongs to /us/", the Rebellious France
because , as you may know, by the current times, we can see absolutely incredible things. For example, there's a man, a real thug,
who bought the domain name jlm2017.com, hey? jlm2017.com, it's pretty near to jlm2017.fr, hmm?... so we said:
"What's that stuff, someone taking over my own initials?" Yes he got the hand on them. And you know what for? To sell that back to me.
So he got in touch and said "Well, y'know, if you want to have the property  back, it will cost you 1000 euros". And I shall pay 1000 euros to have my name back???
So, y'know me, my way of being, I sent him to hell. That was closed in a short time.
And then, to put the pressure on me, what did he do? You'll know if you type jlm2017.com, he created a link that sends to Benoît Hamon's website!
Kind of "Hey, pressing a bit on you" and this kind of things. I just don't care about him, about  his fake jlm.com that is only a forgery,
and I very well know that Benoît Hamon is for nothing to call upon here. But I can tell you it will cost this guy a lot, one way or another, for sure.
Because, finally, we'll find a legal way to prevent this kind of theft, of thug thing, first. It's like someone takes your name, takes your brand,
takes your work and under pressure and threat tries to get money from you. That's blackmailing.
Well, at last, he is not alone, y'know. You would be staring at the number of awkward birds who multiply either publications about me
or tell any insanity about my fortune and the remainder, so
this is part of, how to say, the mud flow that goes along with the big river that we are trying to create.
But, indeed, it makes me a bit upset  'cause these are methods, though,... It's already hard enough to run a campaign and on top of that you have to fight
against things that are, y'know, just stingy. And if you fight, it's more coverage for him, in the end, that's what can be called a trap, hey?
With harassment forms like that, you understand that it's not good in any way. It's rotting the life of democracy
and I believe everyone can understand it though. Some respect, please, there are times, there must be a pause in disgusting things.
One can stop a while in one's yob methods but, well, some are so, no, they don't get it. So the guy he wants 1000 euros. That's it.
You know the price of all of this? 1000 euros! Pffff. Now, I go on with the good news concerning me.
First, I would like to thank all of those who understood the spirit of the movement "Rebellious France". I said it a hundred times, this is not a party.
I say it again for the 100th time, it's not, it's a movement. Obviously, in order to participate to that movement, it first needs to
go and support my candidature by going to the website. I have to highlight the fact that on the last passed week we went through a landmark.
We got 14,000 more signatures and now, for example, at the very time at which I'm speaking to you, it's on monday, ok?, that I do this weekly review, one day shift,
we had some 5,000 signatures in a 24h time frame. So the movement is still moving and after that, in order for it to work...
Of course, there are the answers you give by donations when we are calling for, for example, we need money, or when we need voluntary people,
when we're preparing some big event. That was the case on this weekend, in Paris and in Lyon, and in both cases, there were 300 people who mobilised
declaring themselves voluntary to make the framework for the material conditions of these meetings. 600 people who take service
for a common action during a whole day and I have to say that there are not only pleasant things to do, hey?
Sometimes, when you find yourself...
After that, each one accepts or doesn't but when you find yourself carrying, hauling, arm-chaining,
to hold and prevent that mass movements get turning wild or to stay in custody by a door, sometimes it's not much fun. While the meeting is running, you are there...
But it's thanks to all of this that it works. That's a tremendous support. Now, the spirit of the movement, is that people take initiatives.
Of course, not to do nonsense, but our people are wise enough to know what to do and among all these initiatives,
well one example, songs that begin circulating, so there you go! Each one goes by his/her own song, it circulates...
That could be hymns of rebellious people, things to be sung, or mottos, and let them run on the Internet
Because that's how they will be beginning on social networks in a general way and, little by little, there, one or the other will use it
and we'll see what's going to emerge from this.. The first one, is the Rebellious Discord, because they put things that are just magical
and of a Top+ quality, you see? They have in particular, just like that, taken over the presentation of the whole program "Common future", hey,
and now, it's not available because there's a mess with the editor, Le Seuil. I do think that the fact that it be available on-line
will not slow down the spread of the program-book. I do think the contrary. In anyway, I want you to know that it's not me blocking, hey?
not me, nor any other, just because there are some authoring rights up there. That beats everything, it's about the authoring rights of the Rebellious France
defended by the editor, but let it go, all will smoothen I'm sure because therein, everyone is of good will and the editor too.
What /is/ has to be said, thus it will iron out. But in the end, the final word is that the result is absolutely magnificent! There's also a group who compared the programs
that is also Top+, where we can see for each of my competitors the difference between what is proposed by the program "Common future" and its candidate,
and what Fillon, Macron, Le Pen, or whoever is proposing. That is a magical work that was done here.
And there's also one who took initiative, who made a really tremendous work, that we have a hard time following, we here,
that's someone who opened a YouTube channel in which he makes an alphabet primer for the Rebellious France. Thus, it's on the main topics,
or that seem main to him but what he did is very clever, it's both answers to FAQs,
or answers to a particular theme that's in the program. That is a Roman's work because for each case,
he took a small clip of videos where I am explaining the theme or the proposal so that, anything above that, there just isn't, y'know.
And all that, THAT is the spirit of the movement, i.e. each one puts forward to the whole what he/she knows he/she can do.
Talent, abilities, imagination, that is tremendous and that is my strength. You'll see, there are other things to be announced.
Some I don't utter for now, because I keep them for later, for the time I want them to appear
in the general march of the campaign. For you know a campaign is something extremely organized, thoroughly thought out, planned and computed, hey?
where one takes into account at the same time all that came up in the daily news and there are also the long-term trends that we put forward.
For me, the month of february, for example,  is the super-month of the program. We're going to detail it. I believe this week, I don't know how many
there may be 15-20 meetings in the whole country that are held by national speakers and then it's going to grow up
and the idea is always the same, to root, so that people have a good understanding of what we are doing and build a strength that keeps consistent
because I am placing myself in the perspective where -and I well wonder which other perspective I could choose- I shall win and thus, all of it will have to get done.
That, I cannot do alone. Now, I'm taking some days of vacation.
As you know, I've been giving in and it's time for pause. We need to know when to pause and we set it up here in the campaign headquarters
In the first whole group, the operational committee of the campaign, there'll be a shift so that all people can have each three days in a row
for refreshing but the standard would rather be 5 days because there are some who didn't get off for 15 days! OK, I didn't either, but a lot of others too, not only me.
So, if you like all that's getting said on this channel and that you understood well what it helps to set a media of this nature up now,
toc, a small blue thumb up and if you are pleased enough to get desirous to help, get subscribed! I also need
that those of you who agree but didn't think of it yet go to the website jlm2017.fr to give their support,
to support my candidature and the program of the Rebellious France because it grows up correctly but it has to stay in this crescendo mode.
In all domains, things are going well for now and it's essentially due to the fact that I'm surrounded by all those people.
My candidature, it's not the one of a guy alone, it's a globalizing phenomenon, there are thousands and thousands of people who are doing all of this, not just for me
but because we have ideas in common.
Thanks and talk to you soon.